GridPulse - BESCOM EV Charging Optimization Dashboard
How to Run


PREREQUISITES

1. Node.js version 18 or higher
   Download from https://nodejs.org/
   To verify, open a terminal and run: node --version

2. npm (comes installed with Node.js)
   To verify, run: npm --version


STEP 1 - Clone the Repository

Open a terminal and run:

   git clone https://github.com/ulric-collaco/banglore.git
   cd banglore/bescom-ev-dashboard


STEP 2 - Install Dependencies

Run:

   npm install

This will download and install all required packages including React, Vite, deck.gl, MapLibre GL, and h3-js.


STEP 3 - Start the Development Server

Run:

   npm run dev

The terminal will display a local URL, usually http://localhost:5173/. Open that URL in your browser. Chrome or Edge is recommended.


STEP 4 - Using the Dashboard

The dashboard has three tabs at the top:

Live Load - Shows an interactive map of Bengaluru with 25 EV charging stations. Use the hour slider to see how load changes throughout the day. Switch between Heatmap, Hex Grid, and Coverage views.

Site Planning - Shows candidate locations for new charging stations. Click on candidates to select them and see impact metrics like added capacity, projected sessions, and peak relief. Expand any candidate card to see its full scoring breakdown.

Algorithms - Shows the full algorithmic audit panel with K-Means clustering, polynomial regression curves, weighted scoring matrix, smart charging scheduler results, baseline comparison, system architecture, risks, and evaluation metrics.


BUILDING FOR PRODUCTION (OPTIONAL)

To create an optimized production build, run:

   npm run build

This creates a dist folder that can be deployed to any static hosting service such as Vercel, Netlify, or GitHub Pages.

To preview the production build locally, run:

   npm run preview


TROUBLESHOOTING

If npm install fails with permission errors, try running your terminal as Administrator or run npm install --legacy-peer-deps instead.

If port 5173 is already in use, Vite will automatically try the next available port. Check the terminal output for the correct URL.

If the map tiles are not loading, make sure you have an active internet connection. The map uses free OpenStreetMap tiles.

If you see a blank screen, open the browser developer console by pressing F12 and check for errors. Make sure all dependencies were installed correctly.


NOTES

No backend server is required. No API keys are needed. Everything runs in the browser.
